traditional landscape methods can
require a lot of time effort and
resources there are smarter ways to make
your yard beautiful consider a
water-wise landscape we'll show you how
to design a landscape that works for you
and gives you a yard that's the envy of
the neighborhood water-wise landscaping
doesn't mean removing all plant life
from your yard it's a matter of using
your landscape efficiently to achieve
great results the planning isn't too
difficult all you'll need is a tape
measure
paper and pencil there are seven basic
steps to water-wise landscaping planning
and design preparing the soil creating
practical turf areas selecting water
efficient plants using mulch efficient
irrigation and proper maintenance in
this video we're going to cover some of
the basics of planning and design we'll
go into the other steps in how to
install a water-wise landscape you can
find that video as well as the printable
instructions for this video at
lowes.com/videos now as with any home
improvement project we're digging is
involved first you want to call 8 1 1 to
contact your utility companies they'll
mark underground service lines that
you'll need to avoid when digging and
check local ordinances for landscaping
with utilities mark you can start your
landscape design draw a plan of your
property try to make it to scale and
include things like your house deck or
patio and trees note the compass
directions and areas of shade or full
Sun mark areas that will be seen by
others such as your front yard and areas
that are private visible areas usually
require more maintenance now at this
point you should have a basic map of
your property make a few copies so you
can try different designs now mark any
future hardscape additions such as a
deck or a patio you don't have to
completely change your landscape at once
just make some basic changes now and
finish the rest later
next establish water.you zones these
aren't the regional hardiness zones that
we'll talk about later water use zones
refer to the amount of water needed by
plants in different areas of your yard
this will help in your plant selection
there are three types of zones arid
transitional and Oasis arid zones don't
require much supplemental
and this is where you would want to
place drought-tolerant plants the
Arizona is usually away from the house
and gets full Sun the transitional zone
requires a moderate watering schedule
and that leaves the Oasis zone areas
that require high water use typically
Oasis zones are highly visible in the
front yard next to the house or near a
patio or deck one of the techniques to
forming a water-wise landscape is
creating practical turf areas choose a
type of grass that's appropriate for
your climate if you live in the northern
region you should use cool season grass
varieties like rye grasses blue grasses
and fescues in the south lawn should be
st. augustine grass bermuda grass or
zoysia grass you can find regionally
mixed seed at your local low store
that's the correct seed mixture no
matter where you are in the country ok
now that you've established your water
use zones it's time to select plants use
plants that are appropriate to your
growing region define your region go to
lowes.com/howto plants for your region
ask a Lowe's associate for help
when you're determining where to place
plants on your design group them
according to those needs and place them
in the appropriate water use zones by
following these steps you should have a
good idea of how to design a water-wise
landscape for your home to learn some
other water wise landscape design
techniques check out the printable
instructions and to see some of the
changes we made to our landscape watch
how to install a water-wise landscape at
lowes.com/videos